It's tea time again. You are welcome to join me around the table as we feast from God's Word.
100%. It is our prayer here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church that this podcast is
We'll teach, encourage, and admonish us ladies to be the wives and mothers that He has designed us to be.
May he overflow our cups today. Amen.
From his word.
Hi there.
We have learned the four temperaments so this is the last lesson
On this series
Tempering your child's temperaments.
So we looked at the clear the doer
The sanguine the talker
The melancholic
The thinker?
And the phlegmatic the watcher
But you know there are also 12 blends
In these blends you will find one of your child's exact matches. Now we're not going to go through every one of those blends.
For example,
If your child is outgoing,
Very sociable,
And a happy going child but you notice that
They had to have order with all their toys. They loved structure.
And they probably are as sand-melt. That's the same one in melancholy mix.
The dominant print
Temperament will be listed first.
And then they're secondary, of course, second. So that's why we say send mail. That's sanguine, first temperament, and then the melancholy is the second.
But usually all temperaments are
Blend of two
With one being predominant.
But you can find more information on these 12 temperament blends in Beverly Lay's book.
that I referred you to.
But you can look through these different temperament blends and you can find exact match more than likely with your children. And you can also go in your mind and just think back to these blends.
It's these four temperaments and just kind of figure out the blends for your child and what's going on.
The predominant temperament.
But also Dr. Jeremy Simpson taught,
Christian psychology for Foothills College.
There are no longer classes for Foothills, but you can still obtain these 10 lessons on YouTube under the Foothills College of Biblical Studies page.
Brother Jeremy Simpson does an awesome job breaking down these temperaments.
But just as we
Continue to go into this lesson. Just a warning to parents.
Parents who may have a sanguine or choleric child that are.
Known to be extroverts.
that as they discipline their melancholy or phlegmatic child,
They may not understand their weaknesses and that may cause a conflict in the home.
If a one parent is innerverted and the other is extraverted, then a lot of times the innerverted parent will try to cater to the innerverted child.
child.
And so I just want to encourage you that if that is in your home and a Jonathan is an extrovert and then I'm an introvert,
So I understood
Um...
For example, some of our children that had more introverted
um behaviors. so we had to come together as.
A husband and wife and explained to each other and tried to
To help each other understand the temperaments of our children, that that doesn't mean we didn't discipline.
But we got on the same page before we went out and disciplined our children so that way there wasn't conflict or confusion and the homing that we were both on the same page
page would discipline our children.
And so that's
Real important to communicate
For us to understand the children's insecurities in the home, and so I had to do that with Jonathan.
with some more girls that I've
That freedom him to understand
their insecurities and what they were going through not that we didn't discipline them that he would understand.
Their temperament.
But we also have to have absolutes in our home.
We must base them on the scriptures if we base our discipline upon what we did in the past
Maybe from when we were young or when we did something wrong or something that we've seen solely on those things that we're not based on our disciplines on earth.
And I'll see
On biblical principles, but on our temperaments themselves.
So we need to remember that
That we must base,
Discipline on biblical principles and not just
Our temperaments, in other words.
If our discipline
Um, Victoria,, because she loves to be around people, and I get on to her because I tell her that,
She needs to be around people too much, and that's a flaw.
Well, that's...
Maybe I don't understand that because I'm more of an introvert than Victoria, but that doesn't mean she's wrong because she loves to be around people all the time.
So I'm not going to discipline because of her temperament. I'm going to discipline her because she does.
Something as absolute in our home that's wrong biblically, such as lying.
Or disobeying or dishonoring her parents
So I hope that makes sense that we need to base our discipline on biblical principles, not
Our.
Temperaments our sails.
But each temperament must deal with pressure
Whether it be lying,
Hot head being a hot head
Um,
Being depressed or having pride.
you know, why we all have to deal with that in our home and with, within ourselves is because we are born in sin. each one of our children is born a sinner.
dinner.
So you may think predominantly phlegmatic
child is perfect they're easy going they're just a watcher but they're not.
No matter the temperament.
They all have flaws.
And they're all going to go through a rebellious time in their life.
Because they are born of the sin nature.
We all are.
So,
What do we have to do, Moms? we must go back to the Word of God.
Remember, there's none righteous, though not one.
Remember the word of God.
Is a life changer
All scripture is
Ah, given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof,
For correction, for instruction, righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. That's what Second Timothy, through.
1983, 16 and 17 states.
I want to encourage you ladies to do these three things as we end this series.
These are very important for us all. Every
Day
Each day for you to welcome the spirit as a parent.
Every day we need to pray.
Each day we need to wake up and pray for the Lord.
To break down us and who we are and fill us with him.
I pray every day the Lord help me to die to myself.
And to live through him.
Number two is to pray for salvation for our children.
And our babies this will is what really changes their life
That is what changes him. Each one of our children is
That they know him.
And thirdly,
To read the Word of God daily.
And to teach it to our children daily.
That's what we need to teach our children to base their lives upon us. we base our lives upon this as our foundation.
I sure don't have all the answers.
And I have shared with you many of my mistakes as a parent through this series. So remember,
Well, I'll make mistakes as parents.
The main thing
is to realize that we are dependent on the Lord each day and guess what
Each day is a new day.
I love this quote from Elizabeth Elliot. it says, it states, the process of shaping the child.
Shapes also the mother herself.
And I have seen this to be true. The Lord has taught me so many things through teaching my children.
The Holy Spirit has spoken to me more times as I have taught my children.
And any other tasks that I have ever done,
You know why?
Because this is my purpose and the will of God for this season of my life.
To train and narrow the road along with my husband.
In our home.
You know, my husband preached an awesome message Wednesday evening. This past Wednesday evening entitled, Are We Leaving in Perilous Times? You can find it on our church's podcast.
podcast.
But in 2 Timothy 3:1-5, Paul admonishes Timothy about living in the last days.
And what those last days look like and are like, excuse me.
Not just the last days
But also perilous times.
Perilous, that were perilous means fierce times.
So in 2 Timothy 1-5, I'll read that to you.
This know also that in the last days,
Perilous times shall come,
For men shall be lovers of their own selves,
Covetous boasters, prowl, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful.
Unholy.
Without natural affection.
Truce breakers, false accusers.
Incontinent fears.
Despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady,
How minded!
Lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God.
Having a form
Of godliness.
But denying the power,
They are of.
From search, turn away.
That's my biggest fear
Is that I teach my children to be hypocritical.
I don't want my children to have a form of godliness, but deny the power they are in.
The power of God resting on their lives is what's going to sustain us all.
And I want we need to be spiritly in that way. Our children know.
And say the glory of God,
And
I'm thankful that we have
I'm not a church. My husband pastors that. We see the paragod in it.
That we need to train our children that way, they can recognize the glory, the power of God, and they don't just have a former godliness in it, they're hypocritical.
oh, maybe that's why, as like i told you that, told you that being a melancholy temperament or a part of that emotion, my temperament, i don't want to teach my children just to have rules, don't let them
Deliver rules, but live in the spirit of God.
That they were to live for him.
And as they get saved and have their own relationship with God, that they'll live in His Spirit and that they will be Spirit-filled and
not deny the power of God in their lives.
And so,
As we see this,
As we see this um in the scriptures that we just read
That we must train our children to mold their character
That we're living in a week at time we must read and pray daily that we can welcome the spirit so we can mold and train our children's temperaments to be spirit-free
Eric Fielded, full of him.
we must fill our homes with him so that we can leave our homes and be a light in the dark world. you know light is the brightest.
Brightest in the darkest of night.
But I pray this series has been a help to follow this next week. I will be releasing a testimony from one of our missionaries.
Aries, Miss Marissa Hernandez, she will be speaking on bareness and infertility, even if you don't have experience with
A bareness in your loss
You may want to share this with other ladies who have battled this in their past or battled this currently.
But thank you again.
For listening.